The Project Gutenberg eBook of Dr. Courtney's guide to happy
marriage, Multum in parvo library, vol. 1, no. 6, June, 1894, by Dr.
Courtney

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Dr. Courtney's guide to happy marriage, Multum in parvo library,
       vol. 1, no. 6, June, 1894

Author: Dr. Courtney

Release Date: June 24, 2022 [eBook #68396]

Language: English

Produced by: Demian Katz, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Images courtesy
             of the Digital Library@Villanova University.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DR. COURTNEY'S GUIDE TO HAPPY
MARRIAGE, MULTUM IN PARVO LIBRARY, VOL. 1, NO. 6, JUNE, 1894 ***


Transcriber’s Note:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_), and text
enclosed by equal signs is in bold (=bold=).

An additional Transcriber’s Note is at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

Multum in Parvo Library.

_Entered at Post Office as Second-Class matter._

Vol. I. JUNE, 1894. _Published Monthly._ No. 6.




Dr. Courtney’s Guide TO Happy Marriage.


  _Smallest Magazine in the World. Subscription
  price, 50 cts. per year. Single copies, 5 cents each._

  PUBLISHED BY
  A. B. COURTNEY,
  671 Tremont Street, Boston.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARRIAGE GUIDE.




The Newly Wed.


We will suppose you have read and profited by the excellent suggestions
contained in an article published in a previous issue of this library,
under the head of “How to Woo, Win and Wed.” You have succeeded in
winning the object of your affections, and have set sail upon the sea
of matrimony. It is often called a troublous sea. Such indeed it proves
in truth to be for those who embark upon it not fully prepared for the
voyage. Do you really, married or unmarried, know the full meaning of
the word marriage. It is something far more serious than a mere civil
contract or religious ceremony. These are only the marks of outward
show. There is a good deal behind these--a good deal that you ought
to know, and of which, perchance, you are ignorant. The aim of this
article is to give some practical advice to those who have already
entered into the bonds of matrimony, and it will not, it is hoped, come
amiss to those about to marry, but who have not yet taken the step that
leads to misery or bliss. “Marriage,” says Selden, “is a desperate
thing; the frogs in Æsop were extremely wise; they had a great mind to
some water, but they would not leap into the well, because they could
not get out again.” Would that most of us possessed the wisdom of the
fabled frogs.




Purpose of Marriage.


Marriage ought to be consummated as the result of mutual love and
esteem, and not for the purpose of simply gratifying the desires of our
lower nature. This last consideration is, it must be acknowledged, a
controlling one with a great many people, and marriages contracted in
this manner are not generally, and cannot hope to be, happy ones. The
sacredness of the marriage relation ought never to be violated. We must
not forget that we are rational beings with a will to withstand the
weaknesses of our animal natures.




Happy and Unhappy Marriages.


A happy marriage is without doubt the ideal state of living, the end
for which mankind has always striven, while an unhappy marriage is a
veritable hell on earth. Examples of both of these states need not
be given. We see them every day. To one who reads the daily papers
regularly with particular note of the records of divorces, assaults
of drunken or jealous husbands, the faithlessness of women and the
elopements, the thought must present itself that there are more unhappy
marriages than happy ones. This, fortunately, is not true. Where we
read of one unhappy marriage and its terrible consequences there are
ten happy ones of which the world never hears.

“Marriage,” writes Addison, “enlarges the scene of our happiness and
miseries.”

“It is a mistake,” says another writer, “to consider marriage merely
as a scheme to happiness; it is also a bond of service, it is the most
ancient of that social ministration which God has ordained for all
human beings, and which is symbolized by all the relations of nature.”

Still another writer says: “Married life appears to me a sort of
philosophical discipline, training persons to honorable duties, worthy
of the good and wise. Few unmarried people are affected as they ought
to be toward the public good, and perceive what are really the most
important objects in life.”




How to be Happy.


Those who wish to lead happy married lives cannot do better than to
follow a few rules which we present herewith.

Husband and wife ought to maintain entire confidence in each other,
have no secrets each from the other; don’t quarrel; have forbearance
for each other’s failings; you have neither of you married an angel.
Remember, husband, that of every dollar you own, fifty cents belongs
to your wife; she is an equal partner with you in the business of
life; don’t compel her to become a mere household drudge, working for
her board and clothes; she did not marry you for that. Try to see the
good points of your husband or wife; don’t magnify the faults; we are
all only human; don’t have the first quarrel and the second will never
come.




Golden Precepts.


Let the rebuke be preceded by a kiss.

Don’t require a request to be repeated.

Never should both be angry at the same time.

Be lovers all your life. Let the courtship be continued after marriage.

Never neglect the other for all the world beside.

Let each strive always to accommodate the other.

Let the angry word be answered with a kiss.

Bestow your warmest sympathies in each other’s trials.

Criticize as little as possible, but if you find it necessary to
criticize, make your criticism in the most loving manner possible.

Make no display of the sacrifices you make for each other.

Never make remarks calculated to bring ridicule upon the other.

Never deceive; confidence once lost can never be wholly regained.

Always use the most loving and gentle words when addressing each other.

Let each study what pleasure he can bestow upon the other during the
day.

Always leave home with a tender good-bye and loving words. They may be
the last.

Consult and advise together in all things.

When you feel like quarrelling, discuss the whole thing together and
you will come to an amicable settlement.

Never reproach the other, especially in the presence of others, for an
error which was committed with a good motive and with the best judgment
at the time.

Don’t tell your friends the faults of your husband or wife.




The Duty of the Wife.


The wife’s place is in the home. That is her proper sphere of action,
and the one in which she ought to be most happy.

Don’t devote time to society matters while your house duties need to be
done. Don’t spend your time in making clothes for some naked boys in
Dooloboo who do not need them, while your own children go about with
patched or torn clothing.

Greet your husband with a smile on his return from work.

Don’t scold your husband.

Don’t think your husband ought to be perfect. Are you yourself perfect?

Be careful and economical in the expenditure of money for household
purposes. (By the way, your husband ought to make you the treasurer of
the firm.)

Always dress neatly for your husband’s sake. You used to do it before
marriage. Imagine your husband is still your lover.

Treat your husband’s friends politely. This is an important part of
your wifely duty.

Don’t spend money extravagantly for dress or other personal adornment.




The Husband’s Duty.


Don’t think the woman you have married is yours, body and soul.

Don’t be niggardly in money matters.

Don’t withhold from your wife your tender love and sympathy. Regard her
as your dear sweetheart all through life. Always treat her with tender
consideration.

Don’t try to argue with her. A woman cannot reason; she is guided
rather by her womanly intuition, which is rarely at fault.

Follow the counsel of your wife. Many a man has done so and succeeded.
Wisdom and foresight are possessed by women, as well as men.

Let your wife understand fully your business. Don’t let her think you
are earning fifty dollars a week when you are earning only thirty
dollars, or vice versa.

Give your wife all the pleasure you can. She needs it.

Do not go about enjoying yourself with boon companions while your wife
toils at home.

Don’t spend money for rum while your wife has to make over her old
dresses.

If your wife is worthy of it (most wives are), praise her. Women like
praise.

Women are not as strongly built as men, and are thus likely to be often
in delicate health. If so, your wife may be petulant and cross. Make
allowances for this and don’t scold her.

Don’t interfere with your wife in the performance of the duties that
belong peculiarly to her.

Give her money enough to dress well, even if you have to make
sacrifices to do so.

Treat her mother with becoming respect.




Marrying for a Home.


A good many women are foolish enough and dishonorable enough to marry
merely for a home--foolish because they cannot expect such a marriage
to result happily, and dishonorable because they have deceived the man
they married. Love ought to be the basis of all marriages.




Joy and Pleasure.


A married life is not one of unalloyed bliss. We ought not to expect
this. It has its pains as well as its pleasures. As Margaret Fuller
says: “Deceive not thyself by over-expecting happiness in the marriage
state; look not therein for contentment greater than God will give,
or a creature in this world can receive, namely, to be free from all
inconveniences. Marriage is not, like the hill of Olympus, wholly clear
without clouds.” When misfortune comes to us, and all the rest of the
world deserts us, we have those at home to whom to look in certain
expectancy of sympathy and encouragement--wife and children. As John
Taylor says: “A married man falling into misfortune is more apt to
retrieve his situation in the world than a single one, chiefly because
his spirits are soothed and retrieved by domestic endearments, and
his self-respect kept alive by finding that, although all abroad be
darkness and humiliation, yet there is a little world of love at home
over which he is monarch.”

A married man is more apt to labor for the good of all mankind, while
a single man is apt to be more selfish in his aims and endeavors.
The interests of a single man centre round himself, while those of a
married man embrace his whole family, and in a larger degree the whole
community.




Don’t Board.


If you are a newly-married couple, don’t board. Go to keeping house
as soon as possible. Don’t get married if you can’t do this. A young
woman ought to learn the duties and pleasures of housekeeping as soon
after marriage as possible. If she boards out, she has little to occupy
her time, and is apt to pass her days in reading silly novels, or to
fall into that terrible habit of gossiping. She ought to find pleasure
in working for her husband, and she can work for him best only in her
own home, preparing his meals and by the performance of other wifely
duties. As a mere boarder in somebody else’s home, she cannot do
this. There are many drawbacks and perplexities about housekeeping,
to be sure, but these ought to be met and contended with with a brave
spirit. In the end, having conquered, it will be found that the
pleasures far outweigh them. A woman ought to take pleasure in looking
after the home nest, and ought not to leave to some unsympathetic
boarding-housekeeper the task of preparing the daily meals for her
husband.




The Mother-in-Law.


A mother-in-law is often a blessing, but few will admit the truth of
this statement. Many men, however, have found her to be a ministering
angel in disguise. It is better, nevertheless, for the newly-married
couple to live by themselves, if possible, and not be under the sway of
a mother-in-law, or other relative, however kind and unselfish she or
they may be. They ought to strike out for themselves. A mother-in-law,
however good her intention may be (and no doubt her intentions are
always good), is pretty sure to prove meddlesome and dictatorial to a
greater or less degree, and end by being an element of discord in what
ought to be a happy home. You will find it better to paddle your own
canoe, even if you do not make very rapid or easy progress at first.




Marriage a Lottery.


Marriage has been called a lottery. Fortunately it is a lottery in
which there are a great many prizes. Let us give you this bit of advice
in regard to marriage as a lottery: Try to think that you have drawn
a prize. Thinking so will go a good way toward making the supposition
a pleasant reality. Never lose sight of this fact. If your husband or
wife does not come up to the high standard which you have hoped for,
try to stifle the disappointment. It might be worse. Start out well
on the sea of matrimony. “Many a marriage,” writes Frederika Bremer,
“has commenced like the morning, red, and perished like a mushroom.
Wherefore? Because the married pair neglected to be as agreeable to
each other after their union as they were before it. Seek always to
please each other; lavish not your love to-day; remember that marriage
has a morrow, and again a morrow.” Another writer on the same subject
wisely says: “The happiness of married life depends on a power of
making small sacrifices with readiness and cheerfulness. Few persons
are ever called upon to make great sacrifices or to confer great
favors; but affection is kept alive, and happiness secured, by keeping
up a constant warfare against little selfishness.”




Jealousy.


It is said that jealousy is an unmistakable sign of true love. We are
supposed to be jealous of those whom we most dearly love. There may
be some truth in this assertion, but we incline rather to think that
it is open to dispute. Only the weakest are the most jealous. But the
“green-eyed” monster has caused too much misery to treat the matter
lightly. Where mutual love and respect and perfect confidence exist,
and where the married parties are sensible, intellectual people,
jealousy rarely exists. Jealousy, such as that which is said to be
an infallible sign of true love, is exhibited chiefly by silly young
women, married and single, who have no serious grounds for suspicion
against the object toward which their jealousy is directed. If you
are of an incurably jealous disposition, never marry any one of the
opposite sex who is good looking. This will only add fuel to the fires
of your jealousy. Marry a homely person--the homelier the better--one
who is not likely to receive undesirable attentions from the opposite
sex after marriage. But the best advice of all is don’t be jealous. Be
sensible. Nine times out of ten you have no real cause for jealousy
after all. To be jealous of your husband or wife implies that you
have married a partner who cannot be trusted. Have you married such a
person? Probably not. Then why be jealous?




Mental and Physical Exercise.


People in ill health cannot be expected to be happy whether they are
married or single. In order to preserve the health of mind and body,
the laws of health, as regards pure air, exercise, food, drink, etc.,
must be rigidly followed.

Exercise is one of the best means of preserving health. Care must be
taken, however, that the exercise be of a kind and amount suitable to
the needs of each person. Recreation, or a change of occupation (but
never idleness), is sufficient exercise for some people. But there
is little recreation in a game of chess, for instance, in the case
of a man employed in a counting-room all day. His exercise should be
taken out of doors, and be such as to free the mind from the exactions
of business. The wealthy idler will find health in industry of some
kind. Horseback riding is beneficial for those engaged in sedentary
occupations, such as bookkeeping, office-work, etc. Walking is the
best kind of exercise of all, and the most easily obtainable. Bicycle
riding, too, is very good; so are all open-air games when not indulged
in to excess. Dancing is an agreeable and healthy recreation for those
engaged in sedentary pursuits. Indeed, it is considered second to none.
One of the worse cases of consumption has been known to have been
cured by dancing, practised daily for many months. Horseback riding is
also very good for consumptives. Swimming is one of the best kinds of
exercise.

All but babies have too little sleep. Everybody ought to get at
least eight hours’ sleep in a day. Insanity often results from want
of sleep. Always sleep on the right side, never on the back. Always
breathe through the nose when asleep or awake. Never have a fire in
your sleeping-room, unless you are an invalid. The need of cleanliness,
pure air, pure water, sunshine and a cheerful disposition, etc., are
too well known to need insisting upon here. These are necessary for
the preservation of health, and without health there can be no real
happiness.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Art of Ventriloquism.

[Illustration]

This great book was written by the celebrated Frederic Maccabe, one of
the most famous of the world’s ventriloquists. Mr. Maccabe here clearly
shows that ventriloquism is not a natural gift, but that by training
and practice it may be acquired by any one, and it is certainly an
accomplishment well worth cultivating, for nothing will so amuse and
mystify a social gathering as the feats of the ventriloquist. He
appears to be a man of a dozen voices. In his natural tone of voice
he asks a question, and the answer appears to come from the depths of
the chimney in the weak accents of a little child. Again, we hear the
voice of an old man appearing to proceed from the roof of the building,
the distant barking of a dog, etc., etc. These wonderful imitations
are performed without the slightest movement of the lips, greatly
to the astonishment of the audience. Would you not like to acquire
this amusing and mystifying accomplishment? You can do so easily and
readily by studying the directions contained in this book, which is
the best and most complete instructor in the art of ventriloquism ever
published. It is a book of 64 large, double-column pages, bound in
attractive colored paper covers, and will be sent by mail post-paid
upon receipt of only =Ten Cents=.

  KEYSTONE BOOK CO.,
  Philadelphia, Pa.




How to Spoil the Boy.


Eight Every-Day Rules.

If you want your gray hairs dishonored by a spoiled and ruined son,
adopt the following directions:

1. Let him have plenty of spending money.

2. Permit him to choose his own companions without restraint or
direction.

3. Give him a latch key, and allow him to return home late in the
evenings.

4. Make no inquiries as to where and with whom he spends


HIS LEISURE MOMENTS.

5. Give him to understand that manners make a good substitute for
morality.

6. Teach him to expect pay for every act of helpfulness to others.

7. Allow him to occupy a seat in church with the boys rather than the
pew with his parents.

8. Permit him to regard the Sunday school unsuitable for a boy on the
verge of young manhood.

       *       *       *       *       *

Multum in Parvo Library.

=No. 1. Book of Short Stories and Tid Bits.=

=No. 2. How to Become a Lightning Calculator.= This book teaches you
how to add, subtract, divide and multiply instantaneously, and will
prove to be worth many dollars to you.

=No. 3. Art of Love Making and Guide to Etiquette.= This book is just
what is needed by every young man or woman.

=No. 4. Prize Cook Book.= A collection of choice and well-tested
cooking recipes.

=No. 5. Mormonism Exposed.= An explanation of the mysterious rites of
the Danites or “Latter Day Saints,” polygamy, etc., by a Mormon slave
wife. Story of Mountain Meadow Massacre.

=No. 6. Marriage Manual.= If you are married, or expect to be, you
should not fail to get this most important book.

=No. 7. Dr. Parkhurst’s Exposures.= This little volume tells about the
raids of the celebrated reformer in the dens of iniquity in New York. A
thrilling narrative.

=No. 8. How to Get Rich.= A guide to rapid wealth. Contains very
valuable secrets, never before seen in print.

=No. 9. Secrets of the Harem.= This book is written by a woman who has
been there. It tells of the beautiful captive women of the Sultan’s
seraglios.

=No. 10. Guide to Fortune Telling and Dream Book.= By the celebrated
Mme. LeNormand.

=No. 11. Book of Detective Stories.= Thrilling adventures and triumph
of skill.

=No. 12. Book of Brief Narratives=, never before published. Very
interesting.

=SPECIAL OFFER=: We have on hand a quantity of back numbers, as above
mentioned, and will send any that you may select at the reduced price
of one cent each. Send stamps in payment.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Note:

Punctuation has been made consistent.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DR. COURTNEY'S GUIDE TO HAPPY
MARRIAGE, MULTUM IN PARVO LIBRARY, VOL. 1, NO. 6, JUNE, 1894 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
